yo what is up YouTube Welcome Back to
another video so in this video I'm going
to be showing you how to basically lower
your process count in task manager and
get that low as possible to the point
where you'll get that lower input lag
better fps and just less system usage in
general so this will work on Windows 10
or 11 I'm going to be showcasing it on
Windows 11 but it's the exact same
process so the first thing we want to do
is we want to just open up our task
manager by right click on our taskbar
click task manager and then go to the
the performance Tab and then click CPU
and just look at our process count
currently so with my browser open
audacity open and OBS Studio open I have
around 160 processes and this is just a
stock Windows 11 installation I've have
not done much to this except run my
windows 11 optimization video so yours
might be a little bit more yours might
be a lot more or a lot less it doesn't
really matter if you want lower
processes just follow what I'm about to
do next and the first thing we're going
to do is we're going to be changing our
split threshold for our SVC host and
this just depends on what Ram we have so
if we have 16 GB of RAM we set a
specific value if you have 8 GB you set
to this value so we'll talk about that
once we get to out so before we go
through with any of the stuff that we do
to actually lower processes that is a
little bit more advanced the first thing
you want to do is obviously just disable
startup applications so just go to your
task manager go to the startup apps and
just make sure you disable stuff that
you don't need in here this is really
important it just because this
drastically lowers your process count a
lot of the other stuff does as well but
this is the biggest Factor right here so
just disable any of the stuff that you
don't use it here and then if you click
on the bottom right arrow where it shows
show head and icons you want to make
sure everything here is as minimum as
possible I've seen people have 50 things
running in the background just in this
little window and that could literally
destroy your gameplay so just disable or
exit out of all these stuff down here
and make sure you disable them on start
up so they don't keep popping up every
time you start up your PC or just
completely un install them in the
settings so that's the number one thing
I would do before continuing with
anything else in this video now once
you've done that all you want to do is
we're going to basically change the
split threshold and this is going to
reduce the SVC host.exe programs that
are running in the background and what
these do is just they basically just
group the services within Windows to
specific groups and lowering these
groups just basically reduces the count
of that so what we're going to do is
we're going to search up reg edit in the
search bar and expand HQ local machine
expand system expand current control set
and then click control now once you've
clicked control you just want to find
SVC host split threshold in KB and all
we're going to do is from this picture
that I'm going to show on the screen
right here you're going to basically
copy whatever number that your memory
corresponds with so if you have 16 GB
you you would copy the the number of 1
million and if you have 24 gabes it
would be 1.8 million so just copy
whatever I show you on the screen I'll
also leave it in the description and you
can just copy copy it directly from
there but for you if you have 16 GB you
would just do a million so you would
just copy that so you just want to
double click on SVC split threshold and
KB you want to keep it on hexa decimal
and then just highlight whatever is in
here click paste and then press okay and
as you can see this number should
correspond with how much RAM you have
whenever it comes to gigabytes this will
show it in kilobytes but if you convert
it to gigabytes it would be 16 gabt so
you would just do that corresponding how
much memory you have now once you've
done that you would just restart your PC
and if you go to the process tab it will
drop down by a lot so I'll do that real
quickly and show you guys the difference
so once you've restarted your PC and you
are back on desktop all you want to do
is just go to task manager go to the
performance Tab and just look at your
processes so we dropped down from about
160 to 130 to about 80 and that's with
OBS open audacity open and a couple
other things open so that's just from
doing the SVC host tweak now for you it
might be a little bit less of a
difference or it might be more of a
bigger difference but just make sure you
have lower stuff running in the
background and right here and that
should take care of most of it now we're
going to go through something called
Auto runs which basically is a program
where it shows everything that ever runs
on your computer as soon as it turns on
and through that program we can disable
a lot of services that are useless or
are unneeded and just clean up some
stuff that we do not need within the
Windows installation that we have now so
go to the link in the description and it
will take you to the auto runs download
page so once you've downloaded Auto runs
you just want to open it up and then
just extract it and then once you've
extracted it all you want to do is just
double click autorun 64.exe and once you
do that just click run and you can close
out of everything else and wait for this
to load so give it a second while it
scans everything in your computer to see
what's going on and as you can see it
will show us everything here but first
we're going to go to the log on Tab and
these are basically stuff that opens up
as soon as you sign into your PC so
anything here that you don't need you
would uncheck so for example I have this
stuff down here unchecked now go to
schedule task and this is sort of the
same thing these are tasks that
instantly launch as soon as you start up
your PC you might want to go in here and
just figure out what each one does and
if you don't need it uncheck it and if
they're yellow you can right click and
click delete on them only if they're
yellow then go to services and you can
do the same thing here as you can see
these are update services for Microsoft
Edge obviously I don't want these
running in the background so I unchecked
you can do the same thing for other
programs that show up in here and then
we're going to go to drivers for example
if you have a driver like this that's
yellow you can just right click click
delete and press okay and you could do
that for anyone that's yellow that's
just Auto runs right there you might
want to do a little bit more research on
what each of these tasks do or each of
these services do that you're disabling
them just because they might bug out
some of the programs that you usually
use on a daily basis so just keep that
in mind before you just unre random
stuff in here now once you've done that
you can just close out of this and now
we can get into basically disabling
unnecessary services within windows and
the easiest way to find this out is just
press Windows keyr type services.msc and
it will take you to the services
computer management page now these are
basically all the services within
windows that run either automatically or
manually these you basically do not need
depending on your needs if you use Xbox
Microsoft and all these other stuff you
going to need a lot of them if you don't
use either one of those you can disable
a lot more but in this video I don't
want to basically break anyone's
computer and have them not be able to
use Bluetooth or access certain pages
within wi settings so we're going to
leave this to basically a very short
list of services within windows that we
get to SA and from there you can either
do your own research on how to disable
more services or book at a PC
optimization service on my website and
get your PC completely optimized and not
have to worry about stuff breaking but
let's get basically right into what
services we should look out to disable
so the main Services we want to tackle
are services that are running whenever
they're manual or services that are set
to automatic as a startup type we can
disable these just to get lower process
count even more and just have less stuff
running in the background that uses up
our memory so if you don't use any of
the Bluetooth stuff any of the Bluetooth
Services you can disable them and
disable the avctp service if you do not
use Bluetooth however if you use
Bluetooth obviously ignore this and move
on and now another service we could
disable is the connected user
experiences and Telemetry and we can
disable this just because we don't need
feedback being sent to Microsoft so you
can disable this completely so you just
double click on this once you find it
and set startup type to disabled press
apply press okay now we want to find
download a Maps manager and this is
pretty much useless unless you use maps
for whatever reason so disable that we
can find Print Spooler and basically
this is if you use a printer if you do
not use a printer then just disable this
it's unneeded and you can press okay if
you use printer obviously just keep this
alone and we're going to find Windows
image acquisition and this is basically
for devices that scan stuff if you don't
have any of those then you could disable
this cuz you don't need it and we're
going to find Windows and Insider
service and if you do have this you
could just pretty much disable it that
also you the windows Insider program you
can also disable Windows push
notifications these are also un needed
but you notifications within windows
won't work anymore and you could also
disable Windows search but your windows
search might not work as properly as it
used to so you won't be able to search
files directly you would only be able to
search simple stuff so if you don't use
those you can disable those and usually
those are the ones that use the most
memory another one would be disabling
Windows Defender and that's a really
important one I have a whole separate
video on how to disable Windows F Fender
so you can just watch that just because
that video is a little bit easier on
most users just because you have the
ability to disable Windows Defender and
then reenable it quickly with just a
simple program doing it through here is
going to be a little bit more technical
you have to go through registry and use
a program that unlocks all privileges
within registry which I don't want to
show because that's way too complicated
for just disabling a single service but
other than that guys just restart your
PC after you pretty much disabled any
services in here that I mentioned or if
you disabled services that you found out
you don't need on your own just restart
look at your processes in task manager
and they should be way lower and it
pretty much should be noticing a
difference in game but otherwise guys
that's going to be pretty much it for
this video If you guys enjoyed this
leave a like comment down below what
video you want me to do next and if you
guys want a full PC optimization service
where you don't have to worry about any
of the stuff I do everything that I do
in the YouTube videos and way more then
go to the first link in the description
where you can book one of the three
services that I offer on my website I've
worked with Pro players like boa and
basically any pro player in the fortnite
scene I've pretty much worked with but
otherwise guys that's going to be pretty
much it for this video If you guys
enjoyed subscribe leave a like comment
down below and I'll see you guys in the
next one peace
out